Api v1 Beta Test Guide (#5159)
bisq-network/bisq: apitest/docs/api-beta-test-guide.md

node daemons, plus Bob & Alice daemons in a bash terminal with the following bash command:
```
$ ./bisq-apitest --apiPassword=xyz
        --supportingApps=bitcoind,seednode,arbdaemon,alicedaemon,bobdaemon
        --shutdownAfterTests=false
```

If your bitcoin-core binaries are not in your system `PATH`, you can specify the bitcoin-core bin directory with the
`-–bitcoinPath=<path>` option:
```
$ ./bisq-apitest --apiPassword=xyz
        --supportingApps=bitcoind,seednode,arbdaemon,alicedaemon,bobdaemon
        --shutdownAfterTests=false
        --bitcoinPath=<bitcoin-core-home>/bin
```

If your bitcoin-core binaries are not statically linked to your BerkleyDB library, you can specify the path to it
with the `–-berkeleyDbLibPath=<path>` option:
```
$ ./bisq-apitest --apiPassword=xyz
        --supportingApps=bitcoind,seednode,arbdaemon,alicedaemon,bobdaemon
        --shutdownAfterTests=false
        --bitcoinPath=<bitcoin-core-home>/bin
        --berkeleyDbLibPath=<lib-berkleydb-path>
```

Alternatively, you can specify any or all of these bisq-apitest options in a properties file located in
`apitest/src/main/resources/apitest.properties`.

> In this example, a beta tester uses the `apitest.properties` below, instead of ./bisq-cli options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, a beta tester uses the `apitest.properties` below, instead of `./bisq-cli` options.
```

build, or run tests.  The following build command should finish quickly.
```
$ ./gradlew build :apitest:installDaoSetup -x test
```

You should see the test harness startup bitcoin-core and other Bisq daemons in your console, run a
`bitcoin-cli getwalletinfo` command, and generate a regtest btc block.

After the test harness tells you how to shut it down by entering `^C`, the test harness is ready to use.

## Running Trade Simulation Script

_Warning:  again, it is assumed the beta tester has a reasonably fast machine, or the scripted wait times -- for
the other side to perform his step in the protocol, and for btc block generation and asynchronous processing
of new btc blocks by test daemons -- may not be long enough._

### System Requirements

Same as described at the top of this document, but your bitcoin-core’s `bitcoin-cli` binary must be in the system
`PATH`.  (The script generates regtest blocks with it.)

### Description

The regtest trade simulation script `apitest/scripts/trade-simulation.sh` is a useful introduction to the Bisq Api.
The bash script’s output is intended to serve as a tutorial, showing how the CLI can be used to create payment

> accounts for Bob and Alice, create an offer, take the offer, and complete a trade protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
accounts for Bob and Alice, create an offer, take the offer, and complete a trade.
```

(The bash script itself is not intended to be as useful as the output.)  The output is generated too quickly to
follow in real time, so let the script complete before studying the output from start to finish.

The script takes four options:
```
-d=<direction>          The trade direciton, BUY or SELL.
-c=<country>            The two letter country code, US, FR, AT, RU, etc.
-f=<fixed-price>        The offer’s fixed price.
    OR  (-f and -m options mutually exclusive, use one or the other)

> -m=<margin-from-price>  The offer’s margin (%) from market price.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-m=<margin-from-price>  The offer’s margin (%) below the current market price.
```

Reviewer: Just realized this probably changes whether the offer is to buy or to sell. So disregard.

-a=<btc-amount>         The amount of btc to buy or sell.
```

### Examples

This simulation creates US / USD face-to-face payment accounts for Bob and Alice.  Alice (always the trade maker)
creates a SELL / USD offer for the amount of 0.1 BTC, at a price 2% below the current market price.
Bob (always the taker), will use his face-to-face account to take the offer, then the two sides will complete

> the trade protocol, checking their trade status along the way, and their BSQ / BTC balances when the trade is closed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the trade, checking their trade status along the way, and their BSQ / BTC balances when the trade is closed.
```

    --new-wallet-password=<new-wallet-password>
```

Unlock your password encrypted wallet for N seconds before performing sensitive wallet operations:
```
$ ./bisq-cli --password=xyz unlockwallet --wallet-password=<wallet-password> --timeout=<seconds>
```
You can override a `timeout` before it expires by calling `unlockwallet` again.

Lock your wallet before the `unlockwallet` timeout expires:
```
$ ./bisq-cli --password=xyz lockwallet
```

### Checking Balances

Show full BSQ and BTC wallet balance information:
```
$ ./bisq-cli --password=xyz --port=9998  getbalance
```

Show full BSQ wallet balance information:
```
$ ./bisq-cli --password=xyz --port=9999 getbalance --currency-code=bsq
```
_Note:  The example above is asking for Bob’s balance (using port `9999`), not Alice’s balance._

Show Bob’s full BTC wallet balance information:
```
$ ./bisq-cli --password=xyz --port=9999 getbalance --currency-code=btc
```

### Funding a Bisq Wallet

#### Receiving BTC

To receive BTC from an external wallet, find an unused BTC address (with a zero balance) to receive the BTC.
```
$ ./bisq-cli --password=xyz --port=9998 getfundingaddresses
```

> You can check block explorers for the status of a transaction, and check your Bisq BTC wallet address directly:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can check a block explorer for the status of a transaction, or you can check your Bisq BTC wallet address directly:
```

```
$ ./bisq-cli --password=xyz --port=9998 getaddressbalance --address=<btc-address>
```

#### Receiving BSQ
To receive BSQ from an external wallet, find an unused BSQ address:
```
$ ./bisq-cli --password=xyz --port=9998 getunusedbsqaddress
```

Give the public address to the sender.  After the BSQ is sent, you can check block explorers for the status of
the transaction.  There is no support (yet) to check the balance of an individual BSQ address in your wallet,

> but you can check your BSQ wallet’s balance to see when the new funds arrive:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but you can check your BSQ wallet’s balance to determine if the new funds have arrived:
```

```
$ ./bisq-cli --password=xyz --port=9999 getbalance --currency-code=bsq
```

### Sending BSQ and BTC to External Wallets

> Below are commands for sending BSQ and BTC to external wallets.

Reviewer: Sending BSQ to a non-Bisq wallet is not supported and is likely to cause problems and/or losses...maybe a warning like the following could be worth adding here?

"Please note that sending BSQ to non-Bisq wallets is not supported and highly discouraged."

Send BSQ:
```
$ ./bisq-cli --password=xyz --port=9998 sendbsq --address=<bsq-address> --amount=<bsq-amount>
```
Send BSQ with a withdrawal transaction fee of 10 sats/byte:
```
$ ./bisq-cli --password=xyz --port=9998 sendbsq --address=<bsq-address> --amount=<bsq-amount>  --tx-fee-rate=10
```

Send BTC:
```
$ ./bisq-cli --password=xyz --port=9998 sendbtc --address=<btc-address> --amount=<btc-amount>
```
Send BTC with a withdrawal transaction fee of 20 sats/byte:
```
$ ./bisq-cli --password=xyz --port=9998 sendbtc --address=<btc-address> --amount=<btc-amount>  --tx-fee-rate=20
```

### Withdrawal Transaction Fees

> If you have traded using the Bisq UI, you are probably aware of the default network bitcoin withdrawal transaction
> fee, and the custom withdrawal transaction fee user preference in the UI’s setting view.  The Api uses these same

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have traded using the Bisq UI, you are probably aware of the default withdrawal transaction
fee and custom withdrawal transaction fee user preference in the UI’s setting view.  The Api uses these same
```

    form:
    ```
    $ ./bisq-cli --password=xyz --port=9998 getpaymentacctform --payment-method-id=F2F
    ```
    This `getpaymentacctform` command generates a json file (form) for creating an `F2F` payment account,
    prints the file’s contents, and tells you where it is.  In this example, the sever created an `F2F` account
    form named `f2f_1612381824625.json`.

3.  Manually edit the json file, and use its path in the `createpaymentacct` command.
    ```
    $ ./bisq-cli --password=xyz --port=9998 createpaymentacct
        --payment-account-form=f2f_1612381824625.json
    ```
    The server will create and save the new payment account from details defined in the json file.

    _Note:  You can rename the file before passing it to the  `createpaymentacct` command._

### Creating Offers

The createoffer command is the Api's most complex command (so far), but CLI posix-style options are self-explanatory,
and CLI `createoffer` command help gives you specific information about each option.
```
$ ./bisq-cli --password=xyz --port=9998 createoffer --help
```

#### Examples

The `trade-simulation.sh` script described above is an easy way to figure out how to use this command.

> In one of the examples, Alice created a BUY/ EUR offer to buy 0.125 BTC at a fixed price of  30,800 EUR,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a previous example, Alice created a BUY/ EUR offer to buy 0.125 BTC at a fixed price of  30,800 EUR,
```

and pay the Bisq maker fee in BSQ.  Alice had already created an EUR face-to-face payment account with id

> `f3c1ec8b-9761-458d-b13d-9039c6892413`, and used this `createoffer` command:

Reviewer: How does one know this payment account ID? Does `createpaymentacct` return it upon successful account creation?

Author: Yes, `createpaymentacct` returns the account ID, so does `getpaymentaccts`.

Author: I added an explanation in this section (commit cdf15676dbbcffe7aa383e9c9b7d872f9cde3eb0).

### Editing an Existing Offer

Editing existing offers is not yet supported.  You can cancel and re-create an offer, but paid transaction fees
for the canceled offer will be forfeited.

### Taking Offers

Taking an available offer involves two CLI commands: `getoffers` and `takeoffer`.

A CLI user browses available offers with the getoffers command.  For example, the user browses SELL / EUR offers:
```
$ ./bisq-cli --password=xyz --port=9998  getoffers --direction=SELL --currency-code=EUR
```

And takes one of the available offers with an EUR payment account ( id `fe20cdbd-22be-4b8a-a4b6-d2608ff09d6e`)
with the `takeoffer` command:
```
$ ./bisq-cli --password=xyz --port=9998 takeoffer
    --offer-id=83e8b2e2-51b6-4f39-a748-3ebd29c22aea
    --payment-account=fe20cdbd-22be-4b8a-a4b6-d2608ff09d6e
    --fee-currency=btc
```
The taken offer will be used to create a trade contract.  The next section describes how to use the Api to execute
the trade.

### Completing Trade Protocol

The first step in the Bisq trade protocol is completed when a `takeoffer` command successfully creates a new trade from

> the taken offer.  After the Bisq servers prepare the trade, its status can be viewed with the `gettrade` command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the taken offer.  After the Bisq nodes prepare the trade, its status can be viewed with the `gettrade` command:
```

I see how 'server' might make sense in this context but 'node' is more commonly-used throughout docs.

```
$ ./bisq-cli --password=xyz --port=9998 gettrade --trade-id=<trade-id>
```
The `trade-id` is the same as the taken `offer-id`, but when viewing and interacting with trades, it is referred to as
the `trade-id`.  Note that the `trade-id` argument is a full `offer-id`, not a truncated `short-id` as displayed in the
Bisq UI.

You can also view the entire trade contract in `json` format by using the `gettrade` command's `--show-contract=true`
option:
```
$ ./bisq-cli --password=xyz --port=9998 gettrade --trade-id=<trade-id> --show-contract=true
```

The `gettrade` command’s output shows the state of the trade from initial preparation through completion and closure.
Output columns include:
```
Deposit Published           YES if the taker fee tx deposit has been broadcast to the network.
Deposit Confirmed           YES if the taker fee tx deposit has been confirmed by the network.
Fiat Sent                   YES if the buyer has sent a “payment started” message to seller.

> Fiat Received               YES if the sell has sent a “payment received” message to buyer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fiat Received               YES if the seller has sent a “payment received” message to buyer.
```

It should be frequently checked by both sides before proceeding to the next step of the protocol.

_Note:  There is some delay after a new trade is created due to the time it takes for a taker’s trade deposit fee
transaction to be published and confirmed on the bitcoin network.  Both sides of the trade can check the `gettrade`
output's `Deposit Published` and `Deposit Confirmed` columns to find out when this early phase of the trade protocol is
complete._

Once the taker fee transaction has been confirmed, payment can be sent, payment receipt confirmed, and the trade
protocol completed.  There are three CLI commands that must be performed in coordinated order by each side of the trade:
```
confirmpaymentstarted       Buyer sends seller a message confirming payment has been sent.
confirmpaymentreceived      Seller sends buyer a message confirming payment has been received.
keepfunds                   Keep trade proceeds in their Bisq wallets.
    OR
withdrawfunds               Send trade proceeds to an external wallet.
```
The last two mutually exclusive commands (`keepfunds` or `withdrawfunds`) may seem unnecessary, but they are critical

> because they inform the server that a trade’s state can be set to `CLOSED`.  Please close out your trades with one or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
because they inform the Bisq node that a trade’s state can be set to `CLOSED`.  Please close out your trades with one or
```
